Hello, in this video you're going
to learn about Euclidean distance,
which is a similarity metric.
This metric allows you to
identify how far two points or
two vectors are apart from each other.
During this segment, you will get the
Euclidean distance between two documents
vectors like the ones
from the previous video.
And then generalize that notion to
vector spaces in higher dimensions.
Let's use two of the corpora
vectors you saw previously.
Remember, in that's example,
there were two dimensions.
The number of times that the word data and
the word film appeared in the Corpus.
Corpus A will be
the entertainment Corpus and
Corpus B will be the machine
learning Corpus.
Now let's represent those vectors
as points in the vector space.
The Euclidean distance is the length of
the straight line segment connecting them.
To get that value,
you should use the following formula.
The first term is their
horizontal distance squared and
the second term is their
vertical distance squared.
As you see, this formula is an example
of the Pythagorean theorem.
If you solve for
each of the terms in the equation,
you should arrive at this expression.
And at last, get a Euclidean distance
approximately equal to 10,667,
feel free to pause the video and
check this process.
When you have higher dimensions,
the Euclidean distance is
not much more difficult.
Let's walk through an example using
the following co-occurrence matrix.
Suppose that you want to know
the Euclidean distance between the vector
v of the word ice cream and the vector
representation w of the word boba.
To start, you need to get the difference
between each of their dimensions,
square those differences, sum them up and
then get the square root of your results.
This process is the generalization
of the one from the last slide.
This is the formula that you would
use to get the Euclidean distance
between vector representations on
an n-dimensional vector space.
If you remember from algebra,
this formula is known as the norm
of the difference between
the vectors that you are comparing.
Let's take a look at the implementation
of the Euclidean distance in Python.
If you have to vector a presentations,
like the ones from the previous example,
you can
use the linalg module from numpy to get
the norm of the difference between them.
If you implement this code in Python,
you should get this results,
the norm function works for
n-dimensional spaces.
The primary takeaways here are that the
Euclidean distance is basically the length
of the straight line that's
connects two vectors.
And that to get the Euclidean distance,
you have to calculate the norm
of the difference between
the vectors that you are comparing.
By using this metric, you can get a sense
of how similar two documents or words are.
Now that you have learned Euclidean
distance, in the next video,
I will show you a different
type of similarity function.
Concretely, I'll show you
the cosine similarity function,
which is one of the most
popular similarity functions.
See you in the next video.